Provenance Spec improvements v0.2 (#12)
keyko-io/nevermined-docs: docs/architecture/specs/provenance/README.md

* Understand how to associate activities with the input and output entities in a workflow
* Validate cryptographically that an entity was generated from a specific input entity in a specific activity

## Concepts

### Specifications

Nevermined Data Provenance solution is designed based on the [W3C Provenance specifications](https://www.w3.org/TR/2013/NOTE-prov-overview-20130430/).
In addition to this, Nevermined uses [Decentralized Identifiers](https://keyko-io.github.io/nevermined-docs/#/architecture/specs/did/README)
following the [W3C DID specification](https://w3c.github.io/did-core/#overall-architecture).

> The design of Nevermined using both specifications is critical because enable the

Reviewer: `because it enables`?

#### Provenance Relations

> Relations between agents and entities are open but there some common relations that can be used as reference:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Relations between agents and entities are open but there are some common relations that can be used as reference:
```

responsibility for the outcome of the delegated work.

A delegation link, written `actedOnBehalfOf(id; ag2, ag1, a, attrs)` in PROV-N, has:

* `id`: an optional identifier for the delegation link between delegate and responsible;
* `delegate`: an identifier (ag2) for the agent associated with an activity, acting on behalf of the responsible agent;
* `responsible`: an identifier (ag1) for the agent, on behalf of which the delegate agent acted;
* `activity`: an optional identifier (a) of an activity for which the delegation link holds;
* `attributes`: an optional set (attrs) of attribute-value pairs representing additional information about this delegation link.

In the following example we can see how the agent delegated `did:nv:a1` acts on
behalf of the `did:nv:a2` responsible.

```
 actedOnBehalfOf(did:nv:a1, did:nv:a2)
 actedOnBehalfOf(did:nv:a1, did:nv:a2, [ prov:type="ground transportation" ])
```

#### Usage (used)

`Usage` is the beginning of utilizing an entity by an activity.
Before usage, the activity had not begun to utilize this entity and could not
have been affected by the entity. (Note: This definition is formulated for a

> given usage; it is permitted for an activity to have used a same entity multiple

Reviewer: ```suggestion
given usage; it is permitted for an activity to use the same entity multiple
```

 times.)

Given that a usage is the beginning of utilizing an entity, it is instantaneous.

Usage, written `used(id; a, e, t, attrs)` in PROV-N, has:

* `id`: an optional identifier for a usage;
* `activity`: an identifier (a) for the activity that used an entity;
* `entity`: an optional identifier (e) for the entity being used;
* `time`: an optional "usage time" (t), the time at which the entity started to be used;
* `attributes`: an optional set (attrs) of attribute-value pairs representing additional information about this usage.

> In the following example we can see how is associated the activity `did:nv:ac1`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example we can see how to associate the activity `did:nv:ac1`
```

> with the usage of the entity `did:nv:e1` in sone specific moment.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
with the usage of the entity `did:nv:e1` in some specific moment.
```

The above example shows the existence of an activity with identifier `a1`, `start time 2011-11-16T16:05:00`, and
`end time 2011-11-16T16:06:00`,  running on `host server.example.org`, and of `type edit`.

### Examples

Taking into account the relations examples, the scenario where a new asset (entity)
is created (generation), modified (derivation) and used by a third-party entity
can be translated into this:

```
// Entity X is associated with the activity of goodCreation
wasAssociatedWith(goodCreation, entityX)
// Entity Y is associated with the activity of goodModification
wasAssociatedWith(goodModification, entityY)
// Entity Z is associated with the activity of goodShipping
wasAssociatedWith(goodShipping, entityZ)
// A newAsset was created yesterday via goodCreation activity (Entity X)
wasGeneratedBy(newAsset goodCreation, yesterday())
// The newDerivedAsset was created today from the newAsset via goodModification activity (Entity Y)
wasDerivedFrom(newDerivedAsset, newAsset, goodModification, today())
// The newDerivedAsset is shipped by Entity Z
used(goodShipping, newDerivedAsset, now())
```

## Scenario

> For describing the architecture we are gonna use as a reference a supply chain chain use case. In this scenario a company manufacturing some goods needs to deliver them to the final customer. To do that the goods need to be transported by different shipping companies until the goods are handed over to the final recipient.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For describing the architecture we are gonna use as a reference a supply chain use case. In this scenario a company manufacturing some goods needs to deliver them to the final customer. To do that the goods need to be transported by different shipping companies until the goods are handed over to the final recipient.  
```
